 Hi, this is Charles Hoskinson broadcasting live from warm sunny Colorado. Moving from this office, I finally get to return back to my farm. Construction is nearly over for various things that we do. So anyway, I wanted to make a very quick video, talk to you guys about cargo cults and the reality of crypto. So as many of you know, there are probably more than 30,000 cryptocurrency projects floating around the spectrum of crypto. New ones crop up all the time, old ones die, some get resurrected and come back and do new and interesting things. For the most part, we pay attention to maybe at any given time, 50 to 100 projects that are interesting and novel. The novelty can be technological, the novelty can be market dynamics, the novelty can be toponomics, the novelty could be unusual levels of adoption. The novelty can stem from external forces, like for example, Elon Musk waking up every day and saying Dogecoin is amazing and it creates these market distortions that ordinarily would not be there for a meme coin project. And then there's a lot of other stuff that's floating around. And I'd categorize it into kind of three different buckets. One bucket is that failed to launch. It was around for a while, it did a lot, may have been really interesting, but for some reason it just didn't get where it needed to go. Purecoin, those of us old enough to remember, remember that it was the first hybrid proof of stake proof of work system. Another example would be NXT. And they can still technically kind of sort of be around, Feathercoin is still around, but nowhere near the prominence that it used to have. So it's kind of like a dying language or a dying religion. It may have some holders and adherents who are really interested in it, but for some reason, you know, just didn't get where it needs to go. Second, the project could have been an outright scam. And the project could have been basically just the intention from the very beginning was to defraud people. So BitConnect is an example of that. Celsius is an example of that. Where basically people intentionally or unintentionally created something, Luna, where it just blew up and the value is now gone. And even still, some people try to resurrect it or do something with it. For example, there's been attempts to remunerate launch from the Mt. Gox victims, a Luna Classic, all kinds of things that people do. So it's hard to kill things in crypto. And then third, you have these things that for whatever reason, they're curiosities and they're hard to understand because they have something about them in their community, the way they do stuff, the way they communicate that is outside of the orthodoxy of crypto. And you're not really sure where to place it. Not usually technologically novel, or if it is, it's so unusual that it's hard to understand. And typically, the culture is weird. And when I say weird, it doesn't seem like it should take off or has some issues about it. And then what do you do with it? So typically, we in the industry tend to just ignore these things and move forward. But the problem is that the third bucket is the one that tends to reach up and try really aggressively to get people who are in the top 10 to talk about them. And hexes and pulse chain and this ecosystem is an example of that. Every single AMA I have done for the last probably five years, if you look through the comments section of it, both the static comments and the real time comments for the live streams, there's been at least one person saying, what do you think of Richard Hart? What do you think of pulse chain? What do you think of hex? Pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing and pushing. And to tell you the truth, don't know much about it as an ecosystem. Outside of the fact that I know that Richard Hart is an incredibly ostentatious and unusual person who buys lots of luxury goods, expensive watches and cars and Louis Vuitton tracksuits and seems to have a popular YouTube channel. But he doesn't rotate, does similar things. Doesn't really mean that he's a bad guy or that there's an issue there. It's just it's outside of my orbit. And there was nothing technologically interesting about an ERC20 token or a copy of the Ethereum virtual machine. That's just the truth of the matter. There may be business model innovation, but I tend to stay away from people who assert high yield products or other things because almost certainly there is a catch to it that results in value destruction, as we've seen with Celsius and as we've seen with the Connect and as we've seen with other ecosystems. So I usually say nothing. But when you get badger and badger to badger, at some point you say certain things. So recently I was on Dave's show and Gochstein's show. I mentioned we were talking about the various SEC cases and I was saying that cases against things like Coinbase and Binance and Kraken are not long for this world. They're going to be dismissed under this new regime. But cases like the one against Richard are different and those will persist. This triggered many people in the Hex and Pulse chain community to come and directly attack me for something that's a factually accurate statement. The cases against Coinbase and Kraken, as distasteful as they are, are cases against companies discussing the nuances of what is a security or not. The case against Richard is a personal case against him involving misappropriation and fraud for $12.1 million of what they assert as misappropriated money. So those cases the SEC litigates a little differently and more aggressively. And whether you believe he's guilty or not is immaterial to the fact that they will likely continue prosecuting that because the nature of it, the fact that it's a personal case and that they're alleging misappropriation of investment funds. Furthermore, there is an Interpol Red Notice. You may disagree with it. You may think it's a conspiracy. But it's an undeniable thing that there's an Interpol Red Notice to a U.S. citizen living in Finland for tax evasion and assault against a person under the age of 18. Again, you may think it's a big conspiracy. And apparently things are so conspiratorial that when articles are published saying that $2.6 million worth of his watches were seized, that's apparently fake news as well. So this is that third bucket that's unusual. Why do you care what I think? Why do you need my validation? Why do you bother me and all my AMAs about saying various things or say that I'm lying or I'm afraid of the Pulsechain Hex community? I'm not. I've never cared. Richard has certainly made videos attacking Cardano and your own community denied that until I posted one of the videos. And you seem to defend this guy to the end of the earth. I watched the same thing with Craig Wright in the BSV community. And a lot of people were very afraid to speak up against the BSV community and the things that were happening there because they saw how remarkably litigious Craig was and still is. I have no idea who Richard is. I've never met him, never interacted with him, I've never spent any time. I couldn't care less. So I have to ask why do you hassle me and berate and brigade and attack me over Twitter and saying I'm spreading misinformation? Do you deny that there's an SEC case that's active, an Interpol red notice that's active, which is criminal, and that there are issues in that ecosystem? Did these things just not happen? Do you deny that the SEC complaint is against Richard personally, not against the company? And there is an allegation of misappropriation of $12.1 million worth of funds, including buying a large diamond amongst many other things. And what you're going to do now that I've said this is attack me. And say Charles Hoskinson's bad or scared or misleading people or attempting to attack Pulsechain or Hex. And I don't understand what you gain from this. What do you gain by being utterly distasteful people? There was no upside to dragging me into your ecosystem. I have no business in Pulsechain or Hex. I have nothing to do with it. And the only comments were drawing a contrast on how the SEC views enforcement versus cases like Coinbase versus cases where they're alleging personal fraud by the conduct of a founder. These are different things. They're prosecuted differently and they tend not to drop them. They tend to look for remedy. And it typically is the beginning. If there's an allegation of tax fraud in Finland or a US citizen, and I assume he still is because the complaint of the SEC in 2023 alleges that, typically the IRS and the DOJ would also look into these things and see if there is tax fraud, wire fraud, or other things. And just because they have yet to be filed doesn't mean they won't be. So this could be the tip of the iceberg in terms of a litigation strategy. And typically it would be for these types of things. Because if they're alleging A, it follows B because they're interconnected and the SEC does not have the ability to prosecute criminal conduct. That is left to the IRS's CID, the Criminal Investigation Division, and the FBI and the Department of Justice accordingly. And typically they coordinate, but on smaller cases it takes sometimes longer. And in many cases, if a person is residing outside of the United States, the entry point is to have the nexus country that they live in arrest that person first, and lo and behold, US charges suddenly appear and extradition occurs. That's what usually happens with these types of things. So I'm not saying it's going to happen in this case, but that is a common pattern. And that's a point of clarification for these things. This may be inconvenient to you, this may be hurtful to you, you may be an investor in this ecosystem and community, but these are things that typically occur. And we can disagree with them. I'm close friends with Roger Ver. I fundamentally disagree with the tax case that the US government has brought against him and their attempts to put him in jail for life for taxes he probably didn't know. And it is an injustice, and I think there should be a pardon there. And you in that community may feel the same against Richard. Okay, so why then bring Charles Hoskinson into this and provoke the fight? Why then harass me, call me a liar, attack my integrity, attack the Cardano ecosystem over any of this? What do we have to do with any of this? And are you doing any service to your community? You're creating a beacon saying that anybody who gets remotely close to your ecosystem, unless they have a cult-like agreeance with every single thing you agree with, you believe they will be attacked, demeaned, bullied, and harassed. Is that part of your adoption schema? Is that part of how you win people and influence people, get people very excited about partnering with you and being part of your ecosystem? Is that really a wise decision about adoption? So before you engage with this, take a step back and really think it through. I have nothing against anyone in the Pulsechain community, the Hex community. The Hex community. I don't know much about it other than what I read from the SEC complaint, which I pulled this morning and looked through after all this stuff was said. Just to read it again and double-check my understanding of things in the Interpol notice. And the fact that Richard has said things that are untrue about Cardano from his ex-pub statements, amongst other things, demonstrating a clear lack of understanding about how our ecosystem works and basic understanding of how our technology works. I don't care, but he did create those assets and broadcast them. Okay? And we didn't take the bait. There was no engagement when Richard did that. And I believe he did that in an attempt to create engagement. And now we're here. So you're an ecosystem. And whether your founder stays or goes, whether your founder goes to prison or is not in prison, he wins all charges and it was a witch hunt, or he actually has done some nefarious things, who knows? But if you're truly a cryptocurrency and you're truly decentralized, you should be self-governing and you should be different from your founder, as Cardano is, as Bitcoin is, and as Ethereum is increasingly becoming. And if that's the case, you have to ask yourself, again, what type of ecosystem do you want to be? If you take from this video, fuck Charles Hoskinson, fuck Cardano, they're an evil ecosystem, how dare they, they spread lies and misinformation about us. I'm going to tell you right now, as a person who has some advice, who's been around for a while, you are going to make it damn near impossible for anyone to willingly want to work with you, integrate you, invest in you, or be part of your ecosystem. Because what you've broadcasted is that people who have nothing to do with you, who are objective and on the outside, who may not be fully informed or may not fully understand things, the minute that they say anything that you perceive to be problematic, those people have to be destroyed and criticized, demeaned, belittled, and harassed, then no one will ever even want to consider that you exist. This is what happened in the BSV community with Craig. We all watched it. It went down and down and down. Honestly, ask yourself, how many people are waking up today and saying, boy, I can't wait to build my next project on BSV. You know what? No matter what happens, that's ride or die. I got to be with those guys. They're geniuses. We got to be part of that community and that ecosystem. If you want value in your token, you want utility in your token, you want adoption in your ecosystem, I would presume that that's how you achieve that, that people wake up and want to be there through the collective efforts of everybody, you, people on Twitter, some unsolicited advice. I'm going to resume my behavior and put you back in bucket three. I don't care about your ecosystem. We don't think about your ecosystem. There's nothing there that overlaps with the things that I do, the things I think about. This is not a value judgment on you as people. This is not a value judgment on whether you've created something interesting or not. It's just not something I care about. It's not something I'm going to lose a lot of sleep about. The only reason I'm making this video is I've gotten hundreds of tweets now and a lot of messages that were pretty aggressive. I'm trying to nip this in the butt right now and say you will achieve absolutely nothing by further harassment. You're not going to get any more engagement out of me. You're not going to get any more statements out of me. All you have achieved is what little interest I may have had of actually looking into your ecosystem is now over. Congratulations on that. If that was your intent or fuck Charles Hoskinson and he's a bad guy anyway so we didn't care, very well you've achieved that. If that wasn't your intent, well, ask yourself a question why do you do these things? My lived experience will be the same of a lot of other L1 founders and large ecosystems. I wish you all the best of luck. I hope that everything works out for you and that's where we're at. Have a nice night.