 Hi, it's Charles Hoskinson broadcasting live from warm, sunny Colorado, always warm, always sunny, sometimes Colorado. The other times were Argentina in Chile. I was down there for the Constitutional Convention and I took a few days off to go see Patagonia because it's always been on the bucket list and I said, you know, it's been a long year, be time to go back, relax and have some clarity about things. So as many of you saw from the output of the Constitutional Convention, that was the culmination of two years of effort. Around the world, hundreds of workshops, thousands of people in more than 50 countries overall participated in 50 elected delegates and alternates to converge to Buenos Aires to vote on a document. However, imperfect, a document to help us as an ecosystem move forward. 95% of the delegates decided it was good enough to try. And that's a pretty remarkable thing given the fact that when people entered in, it was less than 50%. And also these people come from different parts of the world, from Africa, South America, Australia, New Zealand, Asia, Europe and North America, all six continents. We tried to find someone from Antarctica, but we just couldn't on short notice. In any event, it was a great moment for us as an ecosystem. It was probably one of the proudest moments of my professional career because I got to see something that I dreamed could happen 10 years ago actually come together. In 2025, we have some challenges. And those challenges are going to be that we have to fully decentralize the governance of Cardinal. And every one of the founding entities, institutions and people who have been intimately involved viewpoints and different concepts of that decentralization. For my part, I always believe that the key is to build members based institutions and on chain government, get them working well together and make sure that all of the roles of significance are elected and constrain them by the rule of law. Algorithmic law, first and foremost, because that is the strongest and constitutional law second by and for the people who use Cardinal and own ADA on a daily basis. Others feel that there needs to be a longer transition period and there needs to be institutions that are there to hold people accountable, but are not subject to the democratic whims and will of the ecosystem. This is antithetical to everything I stand for because at what point do those institutions become self-serving and instead of dissolving themselves and allowing the democratic mandate to take over. We're running into this with the U.S. government right now. We have a fourth branch of government. While judges are appointed or elected, legislators are elected and the president's elected, the vast majority of people that work for the federal government are not. They're hired and for life, they stay in roles and accumulate enormous amounts of power over our day-to-day lives. In fact, we've become so bureaucratic and over-legalized, many people have written books and read books like felonies a day, four felonies a day or something like that, where we actually commit lots of crimes inadvertently because the legal code is so complicated. I think we have about a million pages of tax code at this point. Take a lifetime, a physical human lifetime, to fully read and understand all of it. It's not a just society. It's an overly bureaucratic one and you can't vote your way out of it because the bureaucracy tends not to listen to the elected officials anymore. It's just a ceremony, not a compulsion. So my goal was to make sure that Cardano never got into that state. From the very beginning, we had a tripartite structure. So when I flew to Japan in February of 2015 and I discussed with the Japanese who wanted to build the Ethereum of Japan, there was a lot of discussion in the early days about governance. First and foremost, all of the governance failures that we see today are indirectly or directly my fault because I was the person who took the time to think about the tripartite structure and made the recommendations to view it the way it is. I was young and I didn't fully appreciate or understand how complicated and serpentine and difficult governance can be. We were the protocol architects. I built a great technology company. For better or worse, we aggregated one of the largest groups of scientists, formal methods engineers and software engineers in the history of our industry. We've written hundreds of papers. We've written millions of lines of code and we've built something that truly stands the test of time. For seven years, Cardano has been running 24 hours a day, seven days a week under constant attack, technological and social. Yet it's still here. It's still in the top 10. It still has value. It still has a community. I'm proud of that. Yes we've made many mistakes on the roadmap of what to prioritize and not to prioritize and when and how to listen to young and very brilliant community members. I personally felt the sting of those mistakes and those missteps. There were many things we should have done differently. Had I had the experience that I had today, there would be no contest we would have done those things differently. It's just code and momentum. It tends to encapsulate the decisions of the past and even if you want to change, you can't change instantly. It takes time because you have to preserve and protect what you've already created and what people rely upon. From the exchanges to the state pool operators to the DAP developers who have also invested now countless thousands of hours of their time into building on top of what we have today, not what we aspire to have in the future. EMURGO was to take the role of the ecosystem growth hacker. They were supposed to be the venture capitalist and the one that would go and act as close to consensus as we could get. So they would build the alliances, they would bring growth and adoption, they'd focused in Asia initially and then grow to Africa and eventually Europe and North America. And again, stronger controls could have been put into place and perhaps wiser people to help execute. And because we didn't execute as well as we should, many of you in the community have felt that it's been difficult to get listed on exchanges, to get venture capital and ultimately the fair representation you deserve proportional to the time that you put in. There have been a lot of people throughout the years at EMURGO who have put in enormous work. For example, Sebastian Nico, who were the chief engineer and the CTO of EMURGO left and created DC Spark and it's led to Flint and Paima and many amazing things. Manmeet Singh was the chief investment officer of EMURGO and made some great investments while he was there. And I'm good friends with a lot of former and current EMURGO employees. I truly do wish they could have been better, just like I wish I could have been better, but it is what it is and we move forward. The CF has been the biggest anomaly because from the very beginning it was started the wrong way. I brought in a person with the Japanese who helped us get everything started named Michael Parsons and Michael brought his friends in and we had an understanding that the CF would take care of governance functions and become a community driven organization. He incorporated the first Cardano Foundation in the Isle of Man under the name of the Digital Asset Foundation. The reason being is that the Isle of Man in 2015 passed a law to welcome distributed lecture and it seemed like it was going to become a good jurisdiction to run and operate a very flexible cryptocurrency blockchain foundation. From the very beginning there were problems in the relationship. Basic things that we needed to get done, governance things, membership participation, allowing people in the community to come and vote on board members were not getting done. And it culminated to a point where it became clear that those principles did not align with what the ecosystem wanted to have. This led to the creation of the Guardians of Cardano and they plus many others in the community ousted the Cardano Foundation board through social pressure alone. That board ended up being replaced by a majority led by a Mergo and input output. We were interim and transitory board members and what we decided to do was to relocate the foundation then which was in Switzerland. The government moved it from Isle of Man to Switzerland using MME partners to the United States to set up what would have been Intersect today. The Swiss government stepped in, liquidated the entire board and appointed Swiss board members who are not members of our community. To this day those board members are still in power. They then hired out the entire executive team and built the new foundation. And it's been challenging. I'm not going to lie. Working with this new foundation at times. We really wanted the foundation to be a members based organization. We wanted the entire board of the foundation to be elected by the Cardano community. We felt that that was an important nexus and basic things like the GitHub repos and the SIP process and other such things should be nexists there because it would be a fair and neutral place. And also it received Genesis funding explicitly for this purpose. I know that because I was there at the beginning and I created this ecosystem. I'm kind of an expert on that. Kind of know why the money was distributed the way it was. Instead almost immediately they said it's not possible to do under Swiss structure usually citing ESA or some other regulator and that the mandate of the foundation would be self described. And they've published that. So we tried to work with them to create a neutral organization. Initially we decided that the Linux Foundation was a good candidate. They hired a person named Dirk and he worked diligently with our team. We had a workshop in Colorado. They attended. We had high hopes that we'd be able to work well together. Throughout the process it became clear that the Linux Foundation would not include the majority of the ADA holders and actually had a request that for this to work I personally could not participate in governance nor could I of a G. Which doesn't make a lot of sense but that was their request. And also excluding the ADA holders doesn't seem to be wise given the fact that this is a protocol controlled by people who have ADA. So we scrapped that plan, moved on and then agreed to come together and I took the lead with Emurgo and we created Intersect. We asked the foundation to join the board of Intersect. They initially said that it sounded like a good idea and they needed to understand more about the structure. The structure is an American not-for-profit organization and it has a dev trust that we set up in the Caribbean that funds it. And we donated Emurgo and input-output funds to that to bootstrap the organization for roughly speaking a year, year and a half. So it doesn't have a large endowment. It's just bootstrapped from a fund. They used the existence of this entity in the Caribbean as an excuse not to join at the board level. And after about six months, nine months, it's hard to remember as things have been moving so quickly, they created Pragma, an alternative organization which we asked to join but fortunately membership is not clear and it's closed at the moment. Even though we do contribute to Aiken and have high hopes to contribute to the Rust node given that we have many Rust developers because of partner chains, the incentivized test net and our legacy work in Cardano. We asked them to participate on the civics committee which they did and many of the committees of Intersect and the rank and file of the CF did participate there. We'd have productive conversations occasionally and sometimes unproductive conversations. That's the nature of governance. We wanted them for a very early part to be involved in the drafting of CIP 1694 with the community and the drafting of the Constitution. Some of the members of the CF like the TSBancourt did participate and we were very glad to have them there and very glad to have them in the Interim Constitutional Committee training. Unfortunately though, the level of participation with the constitutional side was not significant. I personally funded the Constitutional Convention even though I wanted it to be co-funded by the foundation. It was not a priority. We also really wanted the foundation summit to be in Argentina so the entire community could be part of that constitutional process. They chose to do it in Dubai again. So this was okay as long as they at least helped out at the end. About a week before the Constitutional Convention, without any notice to our people, they drafted and launched their own Constitution. My belief is the attempt wasn't to spark a conversation but rather create an anchor point to use as an excuse to vote against the community ratified approved Constitution. We also believe that they're preparing their own budget to vote against the current budget being prepared by the Intersect Budget Committee and the community as a whole. This is where we stand in 2025. This dirty laundry for years has been internal to the two organizations and we have tried for years to work together effectively. They have coached my employees. They have sowed a lot of discontent. I know people that occupy offices like the Tezos Foundation office next to their office and what their rank and file employees have to say about us. And you know at the end of the day setting ego aside, I couldn't care less about whether they think I'm a good actor or a bad actor. Input output knows what they're doing. We don't know what we're doing. Whether their strategy is to simply wait us out and hope that the evil Charles leaves and then they can take over or not. At the end of the day, all I care about is a successful transition of power to the community as a whole and for every single person who represents ADA to be an elected official by and for the ADA holders. This is imperfect because one token, one vote has intrinsic flaws behind its design. It is a bootstrap criteria for a transition, but we have to get to a point of having a diverse collection of resources upon which to find leaders from. And I do agree and this is why we created Minotaur and why Ouroboros and Mega exists on the roadmap that this is a first class citizen in the path forward. The intent of this video is not to attack the Cardinal Foundation. In fact, it's quite the opposite. It's just to give some color on why you see from time to time friction between my organization and their organization. I don't hate them. In fact, quite the opposite. I like Fred Greggart. I've had many productive meetings with him and I respect him as a leader and his character as a person. I'm just perplexed at times about the behavior and the cooperation. After the Constitution was ratified, it was an emotional moment. Many people were crying, people were waving flags and there was standing applause. It's a great triumph for a two-year process. The only people in the room who weren't doing that was the CF delegation, who after the applause ended, rushed the stage to go and talk to Loy to express their discontent with the process and how they felt they were excluded from it, despite the fact that they were asked to be co-equal partners in this for over two years, starting with SIP 1694 when we launched the Age of Voltaire workshop in Edinburgh in 2022, all the way through to today. I don't understand that. I just don't. If you wanted to be included more, be a co-equal partner in the hosting of the convention. Why would you drop an alternative constitution the community hasn't read, parsed or understood a week before a convention that is the result of 65 workshops in 50 countries? Why wouldn't you introduce these concepts and ideas at those workshops so that they could be meticulously included in the final draft? It's perplexing. I don't understand it. I really don't. Governance doesn't mean we agree. Governance doesn't mean we get along. Governance means that we can eventually converge to good decisions as an ecosystem. These statements are participated by what appears to be a whistleblower. We haven't confirmed. We don't know who that person is on Twitter who leaked an email to Big Pay and Hosky and other community leaders, but I think the sentiments reflect what's going on in the rank and file. Many of my employees, many of the rank and file employees of the CF don't simply understand the strife is coming from and ascribe it to either ego or alternative visions. To tell you the truth, as the CEO of Input Output, I don't fully understand it either. My intention has never been to try to get rid of the CF or replace it. In fact, frankly speaking, I think they should change their name. No one in our ecosystem would have a single problem with them if they called themselves the Cardano Enterprise Foundation and focused exclusively on Fortune 500 adoption and government adoption. I would be their best friend because every single day, whether it be a delegation from Paraguay or people in the state of Alabama or the people in the state of Arkansas or dozens of other countries or states, they come to me and say they have this amazing RFP from the government or from a company that like to adopt blockchain. I would be their best salesman throwing deal after deal after deal. They've already demonstrated great competency in this domain from their work in the country of Georgia with wine to their work in Dubai, working with law enforcement there. And frankly speaking, I think they could close dozens to hundreds of deals on an annual basis. They don't seem to have the right people or aptitude, though, to be a significant player in the governance of Cardano. And also, they seem to want to build an alternative client for Cardano. And I question the wisdom of this, not the act of building one, because frankly speaking, ecosystem. But the concept that the CF should be a first class citizen in that conversation, we already have TXPype and Harmonic and Anastasia and dozens of other great core developers who aren't IOG who could come together with additional funding and go and do this. And they need to work with the Haskell developers because we have to agree on basic principles like the formal specifications of Cardano, which are implementation agnostic, and an incredibly productive meeting, for example, when I was in Argentina with the CEO of TXPype about basic principles of collaboration between Pragma and Intersect. In a particular forming a working group with developers from their side and our side, where that working group could talk about the formal specifications and get them to be complete and make sure that we could do act extraction to Rust. So they have a test suite to verify that the client that they build is interoperable with the Haskell client. This gives them the freedom to innovate, but also the ecosystem as a whole knowledge that we're all following the same set of blueprints that are beholden to an on-chain governance process. That's just basic stuff. And there are so many qualified firms that exist and have been in software engineering for years to decades that want a shot at that. And that's where I want to take the ecosystem. I think it should be dozens, if not hundreds of development companies working together. I question the wisdom of forming yet another development company and building a strong set of developers when that's not what we need. We badly need adult supervision and basic things like the training and work of D-Reps, getting more people to participate in on-chain voting. As we've seen with Catalyst, the CF is absolutely right when they say things like 180 million ADA shouldn't tip the scales when there's tens of billions of ADA in circulation. That's true. And they made a point by voting that there's too little participation in Catalyst. The answer to that is changing the voting systems and growing the participation base. So that's where the funds should be spent. And if I was in charge of that organization, these are the types of things I would care the most about. The outflows would be in funding community conferences, bringing our developers to the big conferences like Token 2049 and Consensus and other places, working with exchanges so that Cardano native tokens can get listed, getting stable coins into Cardano. There was a deal that John McPherson, who used to work at the CF, negotiated to get circled to Cardano in 2021 for about three million dollars. That was not executed. That's what John directly told me. I believe he's also told people on Twitter now, so it's public news. Whether he's lying or not, I do believe it because I know Polkadot got the same deal. I also know Algorand got a similar deal. You forget that their CFOs and CEOs ended up working for me. So kind of know how the ecosystem works. That deal is no longer on the table. It's much more expensive. These are things we need. We need good oracles in our ecosystem. We need better representation in the VC class. We need A16Z to like us because they're forming a cabal right now with the US government. You see people like Coinbase and ConsenSys and A16Z and BlackRock come together, and they're going to have an enormous amount in the Trump administration's influence over crypto policy. And if they choose to exclude Cardano, it's going to be very difficult for us as an ecosystem. So we need to find ways to partner and work with them. This is what a governance body can do well. They can have the uncomfortable, difficult, and long arc conversations. We're not really there to replace core developers or to derail a community process of governance. It just is what it is. But those are my opinions, and I'm not in charge. And I respect the fact that there are co-equal and dependent bodies that can have different strategies and different approaches. But I do believe that community bodies that represent the governance of the community can never be made of people that are self-appointed. They have to be composed of people elected by the community, for the community, and held accountable to the community. And they have to be engaged in processes to gather the feedback of the community. One of the magic things about CIP 1694 and the constitutional process is it didn't care about how much eta you had. And the evidence for that is blatant. All throughout Africa, South America, Asia, places where eta adoption is very light and personal eta holdership is less than 1% of the total supply. Yet the people who were elected there had the same vote as the people from Japan, Germany, England, and the United States of America. It's the first time in history that a constitution's had that type of equality and representation. We tried as hard as we could to bring the community together. That process needs to be expanded and replicated, not just in governance, but for the product workshops, for the marketing, branding, and growth of Cardano, for the budget process, and the innovation process. And yes, we have to continue governance. That means perpetually it would be nice to run five workshop streams every single year across the world and grow from 50 to 100 countries because the feedback we got was phenomenal. And if we could apply this to our ecosystem growth and to our product growth, it will mean that Cardano always has the best roadmap and the most wisdom behind where we want to go and how we want to get there. The cost for that is not cheap. It's about $5 to $10 million per year. But in the grand scheme of things, when we have a nearly $2 billion treasury and people spend $15 million to sponsor a football team, maybe just maybe we as an ecosystem could find the resources to do that. And I understand skepticism behind it, which is why governance entities exist, because they have enough endowment to make mistakes and try before we buy and create traditions and institutions that the community values. That's why EMURGO and Input Output stepped up and put in over $10 million of value to create Intersect and get it running. Yes, I fully appreciate many people say that it's bureaucratic and many people say that it's slow moving and ineffective at times. The challenge is that it has this dual mandate of trying to move fast and do a lot of stuff, but at the same time, try to include everybody along the way. Many people who have never participated in their lives in the governance of a cryptocurrency or the operations of a members based organization. And how do you manage those two things? You have to be competent and understand and have training and experience in order to move quickly. But those people are not the majority of the community with respect to blockchain governance because they've never done it. So if you bring everybody along, it slows everything down. And then the people who already have the skill sets get bored or frustrated and don't want to be part of it because they say it's too slow, bureaucratic or ineffective. It's a balancing act, which is why we valued the CF so much and trying to get them to join the board because we felt they could bring a unique set of diversity and agility to the process and help push things along. And we were saddened when they chose not to do that for their own reasons. It's hard when you think about the future. You know, I've been accused of many things throughout my life, narcissism, lying, ego, and I'm not a perfect person. One thing you can know about me is I care about Cardano more than pretty much anything in my entire life. It's my legacy for better or for worse. And I need this ecosystem to succeed because the world will get better if it does. And I will never live a fulfilled life if Cardano fails because it means that what we valued was not valued by the world. The freedom, the liberty, the decentralized governance, the bottom-up approach, the libertarian I tried very hard every day to endow into it. So every single thing I'm trying to do in 2025, 2026 and beyond, principally next year, is just to get this ecosystem to a point where I know in my heart, no matter what happens, it will always be here, always grow and will succeed like a self-replicating virus that infects people one after another, converts them over to the good side. We're so close to that. We have 1694 turning on fully in January and the D-REPs are coming, which will add a vibrancy dimension to the governance discussions we've never had before. And it's a titanic shift in the perception of the ecosystem. We have the workshop process, which brings people together, whether they have a lot of ADA or not, and includes them. We have a community-ratified constitution from those delegates. And all we've got to do is get it done on chain. And we have an on-chain treasury with nearly $2 billion that, if deployed, will allow Cardano every year to spend at least $100 to $200 million to growth hack and to support the people who have already done great things. And that's at our current valuation. If we continue to grow, that will be in the tens of billions of dollars and become a sovereign wealth fund unto itself. We are this close to greatness. We did the hard work. It's not my intent to allow personal feelings, ego, or rivalries, or strife from the past get in the way of what we have achieved. I've tried really hard in the last few months to skew the drama and to heal old wounds and to let things go. I'm fully prepared for any necessary reset in 2025 and to take any role in the ecosystem, because this is not about Charles Hoskinson or input-output. It's not about any collection of entities. This is about the protocol, Cardano, and where Cardano needs to go and how we get there as an ecosystem. I will never compromise on my belief that Cardano will only be successful if it includes as many voices as possible, and those voices have the legitimacy of democratic consent behind them and the constraints of constitutional algorithmic law. I will never deviate from that, and I will never accept a state of affairs where we, for years or decades, have to endure an unelected group of bureaucrats to control us. This is the current state of affairs in the United States of America, and that's the state of affairs that's comfortable with the wars, the lead in our water, the poison in our foods, and the inhumanity of our current justice system. That's the state of affairs that's totally comfortable with 100,000 Americans dying every year from fentanyl and saying, oh, well, or our money being stolen by large corporations in the military. It's the state of affairs that is totally comfortable with the vast majority of Americans being demoralized and excluded from the political process and for media to basically tell us to shut up and get the corner and don't try to change it. It's not how the American people want to live, and by extension, it's not how any human being wants to live. We are a reflection of the world because America is made up of people from every country in the world. It's what makes us so diverse and special. Pick a country, you can find an American who's from it. And so as a melting pot, we're a statistical sampling of the world's opinion. And for us, it's not okay to live under that type of bureaucracy. It's not okay for protocols that aspire to freedom and collective governance of the world as a whole to succumb to those same things with a paternal desire to be controlled. So in 2025, judge us not by what we say, but by what we do, where we spend our money and where we spend our time. I'm going to spend 2025 and break it down into three areas. One, there are many products and projects I want to build on Cardano that I think will grow Cardano dramatically. Things like Quantum Hotski, things like the Hydra stuff, things like Midnight, things like Lace. That if we do it the right way, we will make Cardano grow dramatically. Five or 10x in population, the same for the Bitcoin work. It has to be done with principles. You can't go and do shameless cash grabs. You have to do unique and new and interesting things, which is why you have to choose your partners carefully in that. But that's where we're going to spend an enormous amount of our time, input-output, the company. Input-output, the governance participant. We have three final tasks to get done. We have to get the Constitution ratified on chain. That's the first one. Second, we have to get an annual budget done and make sure no one's left behind in that budget because so many of you are working for free right now. So many of you are putting in 16-hour days, seven days a week and not getting a fair share of compensation. A catalyst is a glass of ice water in hell. It's not the lake. You need to get out of that. We need to get to an annual budget process. And third, the entire Constitutional Committee needs to be elected. The interim committee's term ends next year and will be replaced by people 100% approved by the community as a whole. I've already said that input-output will not run for election or participate on chain governance for time because it's important that the community be able to step up and flex its muscles and be in complete control of all major decisions. When to fork, how to change protocol parameters, how to spend the treasury, these types of things. You're ready. You've proven that with the Constitutional Convention. You've proven that by your discipline and dedication. So that's input-output, the governance entity. And third, I'm going to be heavily involved in the politics of my own country, the United States of America, because I'm so tired of what Scary Gary did to us. I'm so tired of Operation Chillpoint 2.0. I've been working closely with members of the legislative branch and other entities in the U.S. government to ensure that we move the process along. And I'm going to have to work with industry as a whole. I've already reached out to many industry leaders, from Brad Garlinghouse, from Ripple. I'm going to be talking to the Hedera people here in a bit and Multiverse X and so many others. And we just need to get everybody in the same tent and everybody drinking from the same fountain, so that we can get a lot passed and we can move forward as an industry and not live in fear anymore because it's been so hard for everybody. And this will ensure that cryptocurrencies get the jubilee required to be able to grow to a scale like the Internet, where they become an irreplaceable and indispensable part of everyone's life, which means effectively they're too big to control, they're too big to dominate, and the principles of crypto will start influencing society as a whole and governance as a whole. So that's how I'm going to spend my time. Any entity that will provide aid in this process and move us forward in this process is my friend. And any entity that tries to derail that process is not. It's not personal. It's just where my mind is at. I have a mission. We have to get things done. So I'm fully prepared and willing to work with the Solana Foundation.
 
 大家好，我是Charles Hoskinson，正在温暖而阳光明媚的科罗拉多州进行直播。这里总是温暖、总是阳光灿烂，有时是科罗拉多州的样子。其他时候我则在阿根廷和智利。我去那里参加了宪法大会，并抽空去了一趟巴塔哥尼亚，因为那一直是我的心愿清单之一。我说过，这一年很长了，是时候回去放松一下，理清一些事情了。

正如你们许多人所看到的宪法大会成果那样，那是两年努力的巅峰之作。全球范围内举办了数百场研讨会，来自50多个国家的数千人参与其中，最终选出了50名代表和候补代表齐聚布宜诺斯艾利斯投票通过了一份文件——尽管不完美但足以帮助我们生态系统向前迈进的文件。95%的代表认为值得一试这已经相当了不起要知道当初人们加入时支持率还不到50%。而且这些人来自世界各地非洲南美澳大利亚新西兰亚洲欧洲北美六大洲我们曾试图找一位南极洲的代表但短时间内未能如愿无论如何这对我们的生态系统来说是一个伟大的时刻可能是我职业生涯中最自豪的时刻之一因为我亲眼见证了十年前梦想的事情成真

2025年我们将面临一些挑战这些挑战包括我们必须完全去中心化Cardano的治理每一个创始实体机构和个人都对这种去中心化有着不同的观点和概念就我个人而言我一直相信关键在于建立基于成员的机构和链上政府让它们良好协作并确保所有重要职位都是选举产生的并通过法治来约束首先是算法法因为它最为强大其次是宪法法由使用Cardano日常持有ADA的人们制定其他人则认为需要更长的过渡期并且需要有机构来问责但不受到生态系统的民主意愿影响这与我所主张的一切背道而驰因为这些机构何时会变得自私自利而不是自我解散让民主授权接管我们现在在美国政府中就遇到了这种情况我们有第四政府部门虽然法官被任命或选举产生立法者被选举总统也被选举但在联邦政府工作的大多数人并非如此他们是被雇佣终身任职积累了对我们日常生活巨大的权力实际上我们已经变得如此官僚化和过度法律化许多人写过书也读过类似《一天四宗重罪》这样的书因为我们无意中犯下了很多罪行因为法律代码太复杂了我认为目前我们的税法大约有一百万页一个人终其一生也无法完全阅读和理解所有这些这不是一个公正的社会这是一个过于官僚化的社会你无法通过投票摆脱它因为官僚机构往往不再听从民选官员的话这只是形式而非强制所以我的目标是确保Cardano永远不会陷入那种状态从一开始我们就有一个三方结构当我在2015年2月飞往日本与想要打造日本版以太坊的人讨论时早期有很多关于治理的讨论首先我们今天看到的所有治理失败间接或直接都是我的错因为我是那个花时间思考三方结构并提出建议以当前方式看待它的人那时我还年轻没有充分理解或意识到治理有多么复杂曲折困难我们是协议架构师我创建了一家伟大的科技公司无论好坏我们在行业历史上聚集了最大的一群科学家形式方法工程师和软件工程师我们撰写了数百篇论文编写了数百万行代码构建了一些真正经得起时间考验的东西七年来Cardano每天24小时每周7天在技术和社会的持续攻击下运行然而它依然存在仍然位列前十仍有价值仍有社区我为此感到自豪是的我们在路线图上犯了很多错误关于优先事项的选择以及何时如何听取年轻且非常聪明的社区成员的意见我个人感受到了这些错误和失误的痛苦有许多事情我们应该做得不同如果我有今天的经验毫无疑问我们会采取不同的做法但这只是代码和动量的体现过去所做的决定会被封装即使你想改变也不能立即实现需要时间因为你必须保护已经创造的东西以及人们依赖的东西从交易所到质押池运营商再到DApp开发者他们已经投入无数小时在我们今天拥有的基础上建设而不是未来渴望拥有的东西EMURGO本应承担生态系统增长黑客的角色他们应该是风险投资家尽可能接近共识所以他们应该建立联盟带来增长和应用最初专注于亚洲然后扩展到非洲最终到欧洲和北美同样更强的控制措施本可以到位或许更有智慧的人帮助执行由于我们没有像应该的那样执行得很好社区中的许多人觉得难以在交易所上市获得风险投资最终得到与你投入的时间相称的公平回报多年来EMURGO中有很多人付出了巨大努力例如Sebastian Nico曾是EMURGO的首席工程师兼CTO离开后创立了DC Spark并引领FlintPaima等众多精彩项目Manmeet Singh曾是EMURGO的首席投资官在那里做出了一些出色的投资我与许多前现任EMURGO员工关系很好我真的希望他们能做得更好就像我希望自己能做得更好一样但事实就是如此我们要继续前进CF一直是最大的异常现象因为它从一开始就以错误的方式启动我带了一个日本人Michael Parsons帮助我们一切起步Michael带来了他的朋友们我们达成共识CF将负责治理职能成为一个社区驱动的组织他在马恩岛以数字资产基金会的名义注册成立了第一个Cardano基金会原因是马恩岛在2015年通过了一项欢迎分布式账本技术的法律似乎将成为运营灵活加密货币区块链基金会的良好司法管辖区从一开始关系中就存在问题我们需要完成的基本事务如治理会员参与允许社区成员前来投票董事会成员都没有做到这一点最终导致那些原则与生态系统期望不符的情况明显这使得守护者Guardians of Cardano成立加上社区中许多其他人的力量仅凭社会压力就将原CF董事会赶下台该董事会随后由Mergo主导并由Input Output介入成为临时过渡性董事我们所做的是将当时位于瑞士的基础搬迁美国政府利用MME合作伙伴将其从马恩岛迁至美国设立Intersect今日之基础瑞士政府介入清算整个董事会任命非我们社区的瑞士人为新董事会至今那些人仍在掌权接着他们聘请了整个执行团队建立了新的基金会说实话有时候与新基金会合作颇具挑战性我们希望基金会成为基于会员的组织我们希望整个基金会的董事都由Cardano社区选出我们认为这是重要的纽带诸如GitHub仓库SIP流程等基本事项也应在此处因为它们将是公平中立的地方此外它还明确获得了Genesis资金用于此目的我知道这一点因为我一开始就在那里创建了这个生态系统我对这方面算是专家某种程度上知道钱是如何分配的相反几乎立刻他们说按照瑞士结构通常引用ESA或其他监管机构的说法不可能这样做并且基金会的使命将由自己定义他们已经发布了这一声明所以我们尝试与他们合作创建一个中立组织最初我们认为Linux Foundation是个不错的选择他们聘请了一位名叫Dirk的人员他勤奋地与我们的团队合作我们在科罗拉多举办了一次研讨会他们也参加我们对能够良好合作抱有很高期望在整个过程中逐渐清楚Linux Foundation不会包含大多数ADA持有者实际上还有要求为了这个方案可行我个人不能参与治理IOG也不行这不太合理但他们就是这么要求的另外排除ADA持有者的做法似乎不明智毕竟这是一个由拥有ADA的人群控制的协议于是我们放弃了这个计划转而同意共同行动我带领Emurgo一起创立Intersect邀请基金会加入Intersect理事会起初他们认为这是个好主意并表示需要更多了解组织结构该结构是美国非营利组织并在加勒比海设立了开发信托为其提供资金Emurgo及input-output向其中注资约一年半左右因此并没有大量捐赠而是从一个基金启动了他们利用加勒比地区实体的存在作为借口不在理事会层面加入大约六个月九个月后具体记不清因为他们动作太快了他们创建Pragma另一个替代性组织我们也请求加入但目前会员资格尚不明确且暂时关闭尽管我们对Aiken有所贡献并对Rust节点寄予厚望鉴于因伙伴链激励测试网及我们在卡达诺的传统工作拥有众多Rust开发者我们还请他们在公民委员会及其他多个Intersect委员会中发挥作用确实有不少基层CF人员参与了进来偶尔会有富有成效的对话也有不那么顺利的时候这就是治理的本质所在早些时候我们希望他们在CIP 1694草案制定过程中深入参与并与社群一同起草宪章部分CF成员如TSBancourt确实参与了对此我们都深感欣慰也非常高兴能在临时宪章委员会培训中见到他们的身影遗憾的是他们在宪章方面的实质性贡献并不显著我个人资助了整个制宪会议即便原本期待能与基金会共同出资但这并未成为他们的优先事项同时我们也强烈希望能在阿根廷举行峰会以便全体社群都能参与到这一制宪进程中来但他们再次选择了迪拜只要最后阶段能得到协助这也无妨然而就在制宪会议召开前一周未通知我方的情况下他们就草拟并发起了自己的章程我认为此举并非旨在引发讨论而是想以此作为锚点借机反对已获社群批准通过的正式章程我们还怀疑他们正筹备自己的预算案意图对抗当前由Intersect预算委员会及整体社群准备的预算方案这便是2025年的现状多年来的内部纷争仅限于这两大组织之间而我们长久以来都在努力寻求有效合作的途径他们对我的员工进行了指导但也播撒了不少不满情绪据我所知邻近Tezos办公室的工作人员对我们颇有微词说到底抛开个人自尊不论我并不在意他们是视我为正面还是负面角色Input Output深知自身职责所在至于是否明白自己在做什么则另当别论不论他们的策略是否是静待时机期盼“邪恶”查尔斯离去后再接手大局归根结底我只关心权力的成功移交至整个社群手中每一位代表ADA的人都应由且为持币者们所推举而出诚然一票一权的设计背后有其固有缺陷但它作为一种过渡期的引导标准我们必须达到具备多元资源库从中选拔领导者的地步这也是为何我们要推出Minotaur并将Ouroboros Mega纳入路线图的原因使其在未来路径上占据首要地位制作这段视频的目的绝非抨击卡尔达诺基金会恰恰相反只是想为大家揭示为何时不时会出现我与对方组织的摩擦我不恨他们事实上正好相反我喜欢Fred Greggart与他有过多次富有成效的会面尊重他作为领导者的人格魅力只是有时对其行为与合作方式感到困惑不解当章程获得批准的那一刻情感涌动许多人泪流满面挥舞旗帜掌声雷动历经两年的历程终于迎来重大胜利现场唯一未融入这份喜悦的是CF代表团他们在掌声结束后冲向舞台找Loy表达对整个过程的不满认为自己遭到排斥尽管两年前自SIP 1694起即受邀平等共事始于2022年在爱丁堡举办的伏尔泰时代研讨会直至今日我都无法理解这种行为真的不明白若真想更多地融入何不在主办大会上担任同等伙伴呢？为何要在65个遍布50国的研讨会产生结果前夕抛出一份未经社群众读解析理解的替代章程呢？为何不在那些研讨会上引入这些理念使之得以细致入微地融入终稿之中呢？实在令人费解我真的搞不懂治理想必并不意味着意见一致也不意味着和睦相处而是指作为一个生态体系我们能最终汇聚于明智决策之上此番言论疑似出自一名举报人之口尚未确认推特上有位匿名人士泄露邮件给Big PayHosky及其他社领袖但我感觉其情绪反映了基层的真实状况无论是我的雇员还是不少普通CF职员都不太明白冲突源自何处归咎于自负或是异见坦白讲身为Input Output CEO我也未能全然洞悉其中的缘由从未有意要铲除或取代 CF事实上坦率地说我觉得他们应当改名倘若自称卡尔达诺企业基金会专攻财富500强采纳和政府采用领域我相信无人会对他们有丝毫异议我会是他们最好的朋友每日不论是巴拉圭代表团阿拉巴马州阿肯色州的居民抑或其他数十个国家地区的访客都会告诉我收到来自政府或企业的绝佳RFPs欲采纳区块链技术我将倾力推销接连不断地促成交易他们在格鲁吉亚葡萄酒产业的工作以及在迪拜与执法部门的合作已展现出卓越能力老实说每年拿下几十上百笔交易对他们而言理应不成问题然而看起来缺乏合适的人才资质不足以在卡尔达诺治域内扮演重要角色再者他们还打算为卡达尔构建另一客户端对此我不禁质疑其明智之处倒不是反对开发本身毕竟生态系统中已有TXPypeHarmonicAnastasia等诸多优秀核心开发者虽非IOG出身却可在额外资金支持下联手推进此事需携手Haskell开发者们因为我们必须在诸如卡达尔的形式规范这类实施无关的基本原则达成一致记得我在阿根廷期间曾与TXPype CEO就此展开极其高效的会谈探讨Pragma Intersect间协作的基本准则特别是组建双方开发人员工作组专门研究形式规范力求完备确保能从Haskell提取功能至Rust从而拥有一套验证其所建客户端与原 Haskell客户端互操作性的测试集这样一来既赋予创新自由又使全生态确信大家遵循同一套受链上治程约束的设计蓝图这些都是基础事宜况且市场上不乏有志于此的经验丰富软件开发公司长达数十年之久我想引领生态走向的方向正是鼓励数十乃至上百家开发商协同作业对于再立一家开发商培养强力研发队伍的做法存疑因为这并非当下所需眼下亟需成年人的监督诸如 D-Reps培训等工作提升更多人参与链上投票的热情正如Catalyst所示 CF所言1800万 ADA不应左右天平确有道理尤其面对流通量高达数百亿 ADA的局面他们还指出 Catalyst参与者太少确是一针见血解决之道在于改革表决系统扩大参投基数这才是经费应投向之处假使我掌管该团体最关心的莫过于此类事务支出方向应为资助各类社团会议携自家研发精英出席Token 2049Consensus等大型盛会携手各大交易所推动原生代币上线引进稳定币进入卡达尔曾有John McPherson这位前 CF工作人员洽谈一笔约三百万美元的交易欲令Circle登陆卡达尔发生在2021年这笔生意并未落实这是他亲口告诉我的消息如今已在推特公开信不信随你但我倾向于相信因为他提及波尔克dot阿尔戈兰德均达成了相似合约别忘了他们的 CFOCEO后来都为我效力所以我略知一二现在这项交易已然搁浅成本大幅攀升以上种种皆为必需品我们需要优质预言机入驻更需要VC圈层更好的代表性争取 A16Z青睐此刻后者正联合美国政府形成小圈子可见CoinbaseConsenSysA16ZBlackRock抱团取暖将在特朗普政府对加密政策施加巨大影响力之际如若选择排挤卡尔达诺对我们整条链条都将极为不利故须觅得途径与其结盟共进这正是治体擅长之事可开展艰难漫长的不适对话但我们并无意替换核心程序员亦不愿扰乱社团自治进程现实便是如此以上仅为个人见解本人并无实权敬重各独立依存主体有权秉持各异战略方针不过坚信代表社团自治的主体绝不能任由自行委任之人组成必须是由社员选出服务于社员并向社员负责之人构成还需投身收集反馈的过程 CIP 1694及其伴随的法典编纂过程的一大魔力在于不在乎你手头有多少eta证据显而易见遍及非洲南美洲亚洲等地 eta普及度低个体持币量不足总供应百分之一的区域当选代表的权重竟同日本德国英格兰美利坚合众国等地人士一般无二史上首次一部法典享有这般平等待遇代表性十足竭尽全力凝聚社团之力此般程序亟待拓展复制不仅限于自治范畴还应延伸至产品研习营市场营销品牌塑造成长规划财算编制革新推进等领域没错我们必须延续自治这意味着永续经营若能每年在全球范围开设五条研习通道覆盖国家数量翻番增至百国收获的反响必将惊人将此应用于生境扩展产品升级意味着卡尔达诺始终握有最佳路线图背后蕴含深厚智慧指引前行之路代价自然不菲年均耗资五千万至一亿美元但在宏阔视野之下手握近二十亿美元金库对比赞助足球队花费一千五百万之举或许仅仅是我们这条链条有能力筹措相应资源的明证当然我能理解背后的疑虑这也正是为什么要有治体存在因其储备充足容错试水创传统立制度深受社团珍视 EMURGO Input Output挺身而出注入逾千万美金价值创办 Interscept助其运转起来的确深谙不少人抱怨繁文缛节进展迟缓效率欠佳难题在于肩负双重使命既要快速行动处理诸多事务又要沿途包容各方尤其是平生未曾涉足数字货币管理或以员为基础团体运作的新手该如何平衡二者兼顾一方面必须具备专业素养训练有素方能迅速响应另一方面这类人在涉及区块链接管的群体里并不占多数因为他们从未实践过所以一旦全员跟进速度必然放缓原有技能傍身之辈难免厌倦沮丧不愿掺合嫌节奏拖沓行政繁琐效果不佳这是一门艺术也是为何高度重视 CF竭力邀其加盟理事席位冀望其为流程注入独特多样性敏捷助力推动事物发展当他们出于己因拒绝之时倍感惋惜展望未来思绪万千回首过往人生屡遭指控自恋撒谎傲慢我不是完人唯有一点可以肯定我爱护 Cardan胜过生命中几乎所有它是留给世间的遗产无论成败世界因它的成功变得更美好反之若败北此生难言圆满只因这意味着我们所珍视的价值未被世人认可自由解放分散式管理自下而上自由主义精神日复一日倾注心血因而二零二五年之后主要明年全力以赴只为抵达心中笃定之地无论风云变幻它将永驻人间生生不息如同自我复制病毒逐一感染转化人心向好彼岸触手可及一月全面激活1694 D-REPs即将登场为历来未有过的管议增添活力维度感知巨变由此而生借助研习机制联结众人不分 ADA多少皆纳入其中凭借那群使者敲定的全民公决法典只需付诸链端再加上近二十亿美元的在线金库一经启用年年至少斥资一两亿助推成长扶持英才按现估值计倘持续壮大数额可达千亿自成主权财富基金离辉煌咫尺之遥艰辛付出不容置疑无意让私人恩怨虚荣攀比旧怨阻碍成就最近数月极力淡化戏剧色彩抚平创伤释怀往事随时准备迎接必要的重启甘愿担当任何角色因为这无关 Charles Hoskinson input-output也不是某个集合体关乎的是协议 Cardan及其发展方向集体奔赴目标矢志不移坚持信念唯有容纳最多声音赋予民主认同合法性辅之以法制算法制约方可铸就成功的 Cardan永不妥协绝不接受长期忍受未经推选的官僚集团操控的局面当今美利坚合众国情状即是例证安于战火铅毒食品荼毒人性司法体系冷酷无情坦然面对十万国民死于芬太尼轻描淡写军企巨头窃取钱财漠视广大民众士气低落政治边缘化媒体噤声劝诫勿求变革这不是美国人想要的生活引申开来亦非人类向往的存在我们是世界的缩影美国汇集各国移民造就多样性与独特性择一国必有祖籍彼邦的美籍人士熔炉之中统计抽样反映全球民意对于我们生活在那种官僚体制之下不可接受追求自由的协议立志全球共管的世界岂能屈从同样的桎梏怀抱父权欲望受人摆布是以二零二五年评判依据不在于言辞而在行动金钱时间的投向本人计划分三大板块度过其一诸多心仪的产品项目有望极大提振 Cardan比如 Quantum HotskiHydra系列MidnightLace等等妥善实施可使人口激增五六倍比特币相关工作亦然务必坚守原则杜绝无耻捞金之举务求新颖有趣慎选合作伙伴此处耗费大量光阴其二 input-output这家公司同时也是参政一员尚有三大任务待办首要是法典获批上线其次年度预算出炉保障无人遗漏太多同仁无偿奉献日夜辛劳十六小时周休七日却得不到应有报酬Catalyst犹如地狱冰水一杯远不及湖泊急需走出困境步入年度预决算轨道第三全体宪法委员会委员须经普选产生临时委员任期届满明年接替人选百分之百经由全体社员认可早已申明 input-output暂不竞选也不插手线上政务以便社团挺直腰板全盘掌控重大抉择何时分叉如何调整参数怎样支配国库诸如此类诸位已然准备妥当制宪大会彰显实力纪律专注证明一切其三深度卷入祖国政坛受够了Scary Gary对我们的所作所为Operation Chillpoint 2.0更是忍无可忍密切联络立法分支及其他政府部门同仁协力推进进程还将跨界联动多方业界翘楚Brad Garlinghouse瑞波高层稍后将接触 HederaMultiverse X等等众多同行齐心协力共享源泉方能突破重重难关消除恐惧心理促进行业进步确保加密货币迎来复兴契机规模堪比互联网不可或缺渗透生活方方面面庞大无比无从驾驭主宰密码学原理开始全方位影响社会治理综上所述这就是未来的日程安排凡有助于此进程的任何实体均为友朋反之则为陌路无关私交只问立场肩负使命必有所成故而乐意携手 Solana Foundation
 
 
  I'm fully prepared and willing to work with Vitalik and Ethereum, fully prepared and willing to work with pretty much anyone. I'm back with... I don't really care what they said it did in the past. I don't really care about what happened in 2015 or 16 or 17 or 18. It doesn't matter to me because at the end of the day, I've just laid out what the goals are. So every discussion is going to be, will this help us achieve these goals, launch these products, get governance moved forward? Or will this not? And if it doesn't, I don't have time for it. I really don't. That's just where we're at as an ecosystem. And we will continue moving forward as an ecosystem as a result, at least on the IOG side. Not going anywhere. I love all of you. I care about all of you. All of you matter. You're my friends. I never thought in my entire life I'd have a group of friends like this and as diverse as this. Never thought I'd belong to something like this. But here I am. And I felt it and I saw it. And so many of the workshops and Constitutional Convention delegates coming up to me and telling me how much this means to them. I can't let you down. I'm not going to. I'm going to do my part and my effort and set any personal ego aside, any personal issue aside. We will work together and we will find a way to move this ecosystem forward. I firmly believe Cardano's best days are ahead of it. I firmly believe Cardano will get where it needs to go. And I do believe 2025 is going to be a productive year. But it's going to have drama. It's going to have chaos. It's going to have problems. There's going to be fights and debates and ups and downs. And in the moment people will get very passionate and say crazy things. And in the moment people will believe that perhaps we can't get there. But it's just like climbing a beautiful mountain. While you're climbing it, at some point you start to fatigue and at some point you start believing perhaps you can't summit. You have to find the will to keep going. You have to find the will to keep pushing. And only after you find that will can you enjoy the summit. We're on the path. We've already climbed some of the most difficult parts. And we just have to finish and get to the summit. And that's what's going to happen in 2025. Voltaire will come fully alive. The community will be fully engaged. The budget will get ratified. The Constitution will get ratified. We will as an ecosystem do what we need to do. And then for my part I can focus on mass adoption. I can focus on bringing the industry together and making sure Cardano is not left out of the conversation anymore. And we're no longer an island. But we're a co-equal partner with the rest of the industry. And as the industry grows, we grow. That's where I want to be. So thanks for listening. It's a difficult video to make. I don't like airing all of these things. But I think it's reached an apex at the moment. And until next time, talk to you soon. Cheers.

我已充分准备并愿意与Vitalik及以太坊合作，实际上，我准备好也愿意与几乎任何人携手。我回来了...我并不真正在意他们过去说了什么或做了什么。2015年、16年、17年还是18年发生了什么，对我来说并不重要。因为归根结底，我已经明确了我们的目标是什么。因此，每一次讨论都将围绕这一点：这是否有助于我们实现这些目标、推出这些产品、推动治理向前发展？如果答案是否定的，那么我没有时间浪费在这上面。真的没有时间了。这就是我们作为一个生态系统所处的现状。至少从IOG的角度来看，我们将继续以生态系统的身份前进，不会停滞不前。

我爱你们每一个人。我在乎你们所有人。你们都至关重要——是我的朋友。在我一生中从未想过会有这样一群朋友，如此多元化的群体；从未想过我会属于这样的集体之中。但如今我就在这里感受到了它、看到了它——许多工作坊和宪法大会的代表们走到我面前告诉我这一切对他们意味着多少意义重大之事时……我不能让你们失望！我不会那样做！我要尽自己的一份力去努力奋斗同时放下个人自尊心以及任何私人问题于一旁…我们会共同努力找到方法推进这个生态系统向前迈进！

坚信Cardano最美好的日子还在后头呢; 坚信Cardano必将抵达其应去之地 ; 并且我也确实认为2025年会是一个富有成效的一年 . 然而 , 这一年里必然充满戏剧性事件 、混乱局面及各种难题 . 将会有争执辩论起伏跌宕 …当人们处于激情澎湃之际可能会说出些疯狂话语 ;而当那一刻来临之时也许有人会开始怀疑我们是否能达成目的 …但这就像攀登一座壮丽山峰一样 :当你正在攀爬过程中某刻开始感到疲惫不堪甚至产生可能无法登顶之念想时必须寻得那份坚持到底意志力才行啊 !只有找到了那份毅力之后才能享受到山顶风光无限好呀 ~

我们现在正走在路上已经翻越了一些最为艰难险阻地段接下来只需完成最后冲刺直达峰顶即可而这正是2025即将发生之事 Voltaire将会全面活跃起来社区也将全身心投入其中预算案会被批准通过宪章同样获得认可整个生态系统都会去做那些必须完成的任务然后至于我个人则可以专注于大规模普及应用方面致力于团结业界确保Cardano不再被排除在对话之外不再是孤岛而是与其他行业平起平坐共同成长随着行业发展壮大我们也随之茁壮成长这才是我想要达到的境界所以感谢聆听制作这段视频实属不易我不喜欢公开谈论所有这些问题但我认为目前情况已到达一个顶点下次再见很快再聊干杯